src/curl/curl/docs/BINDINGS.md, before:

libcurl bindings
================

 Creative people have written bindings or interfaces for various environments
 and programming languages. Using one of these allows you to take advantage of
 curl powers from within your favourite language or system.

 This is a list of all known interfaces as of this writing.

 The bindings listed below are not part of the curl/libcurl distribution
 archives, but must be downloaded and installed separately.

[Ada95](http://www.almroth.com/adacurl/index.html)  Writtten by Andreas Almroth

[Basic](http://scriptbasic.com/) ScriptBasic bindings writtten by Peter Verhas

[C++](http://curlpp.org/) Written by Jean-Philippe Barrette-LaPierre

[Ch](http://chcurl.sourceforge.net/) Written by Stephen Nestinger and Jonathan Rogado

Cocoa: [BBHTTP](https://github.com/brunodecarvalho/BBHTTP) written by Bruno de Carvalho
[curlhandle](http://curlhandle.sourceforge.net/) Written by Dan Wood

[D](http://dlang.org/library/std/net/curl.html) Written by Kenneth Bogert

[Dylan](http://dylanlibs.sourceforge.net/) Written by Chris Double

[Eiffel](https://room.eiffel.com/library/curl) Written by Eiffel Software

[Euphoria](http://rays-web.com/eulibcurl.htm) Written by Ray Smith

[Falcon](http://www.falconpl.org/index.ftd?page_id=prjs&prj_id=curl)

[Ferite](http://www.ferite.org/) Written by Paul Querna

[Gambas](http://gambas.sourceforge.net/)

[glib/GTK+](http://atterer.net/glibcurl/) Written by Richard Atterer

[Guile](http://www.lonelycactus.com/guile-curl.html) Written by Michael L. Gran

[Harbour](https://github.com/vszakats/harbour-core/tree/master/contrib/hbcurl) Written by Viktor Szakáts

[Haskell](http://hackage.haskell.org/cgi-bin/hackage-scripts/package/curl) Written by Galois, Inc

[Java](https://github.com/pjlegato/curl-java)

[Julia](https://github.com/forio/Curl.jl) Written by Paul Howe

[Lisp](http://common-lisp.net/project/cl-curl/) Written by Liam Healy

Lua: [luacurl](http://luacurl.luaforge.net/) by Alexander Marinov, [Lua-cURL](http://luaforge.net/projects/lua-curl/) by Jürgen Hötzel

[Mono](http://forge.novell.com/modules/xfmod/project/?libcurl-mono) Written by Jeffrey Phillips

[.NET](https://sourceforge.net/projects/libcurl-net/) libcurl-net by Jeffrey Phillips

[node.js](https://github.com/JCMais/node-libcurl) node-libcurl by Jonathan Cardoso Machado

[Object-Pascal](http://www.tekool.com/opcurl) Free Pascal, Delphi and Kylix binding written by Christophe Espern.

[O'Caml](https://sourceforge.net/projects/ocurl/) Written by Lars Nilsson

[Pascal](http://houston.quik.com/jkp/curlpas/) Free Pascal, Delphi and Kylix binding written by Jeffrey Pohlmeyer.

[Perl](https://github.com/szbalint/WWW--Curl) Maintained by Cris Bailiff and Bálint Szilakszi

[PHP](https://php.net/curl) Originally written by Sterling Hughes

[PostgreSQL](http://gborg.postgresql.org/project/pgcurl/projdisplay.php) Written by Gian Paolo Ciceri

[Python](http://pycurl.sourceforge.net/) PycURL by Kjetil Jacobsen

[R](http://cran.r-project.org/package=curl)

[Rexx](http://rexxcurl.sourceforge.net/) Written Mark Hessling

RPG, support for ILE/RPG on OS/400 is included in source distribution

Ruby: [curb](http://curb.rubyforge.org/) written by Ross Bamford, [ruby-curl-multi](http://curl-multi.rubyforge.org/) written by Kristjan Petursson and Keith Rarick

[Rust](https://github.com/carllerche/curl-rust) curl-rust - by Carl Lerche

[Scheme](http://www.metapaper.net/lisovsky/web/curl/) Bigloo binding by Kirill Lisovsky

[S-Lang](http://www.jedsoft.org/slang/modules/curl.html) by John E Davis

[Smalltalk](http://www.squeaksource.com/CurlPlugin/) Written by Danil Osipchuk

[SP-Forth](http://www.forth.org.ru/~ac/lib/lin/curl/) Written by ygrek

[SPL](http://www.clifford.at/spl/) Written by Clifford Wolf

[Tcl](http://mirror.yellow5.com/tclcurl/) Tclcurl by Andrés García

[Visual Basic](https://sourceforge.net/projects/libcurl-vb/) libcurl-vb by Jeffrey Phillips

[Visual Foxpro](http://www.ctl32.com.ar/libcurl.asp) by Carlos Alloatti

[Q](http://q-lang.sourceforge.net/) The libcurl module is part of the default install

[wxWidgets](http://wxcode.sourceforge.net/components/wxcurl/) Written by Casey O'Donnell

[XBLite](http://perso.wanadoo.fr/xblite/libraries.html) Written by David Szafranski

[Xojo](https://github.com/charonn0/RB-libcURL) Written by Andrew Lambert

Commit message:

Changes introduced by curl-95.70.1.tar.gz (2017-05-16, macos-10126)
Source: https://opensource.apple.com/tarballs/curl/curl-95.70.1.tar.gz
SHA-1: 99e4a1c75c05fd7107918f2db0290debcc54ea1b
OS X Release: macos-10126 (source release #098)
File Modification Timestamp (Oldest): 2011-12-16 01:08:52
File Modification Timestamp (Newest): 2017-05-16 22:46:31

src/curl/curl/docs/BINDINGS.md, after:

libcurl bindings
================

 Creative people have written bindings or interfaces for various environments
 and programming languages. Using one of these allows you to take advantage of
 curl powers from within your favourite language or system.

 This is a list of all known interfaces as of this writing.

 The bindings listed below are not part of the curl/libcurl distribution
 archives, but must be downloaded and installed separately.

[Ada95](http://www.almroth.com/adacurl/index.html)  Written by Andreas Almroth

[Basic](http://scriptbasic.com/) ScriptBasic bindings written by Peter Verhas

C++: [curlpp](http://curlpp.org/) Written by Jean-Philippe Barrette-LaPierre,
[curlcpp](https://github.com/JosephP91/curlcpp) by Giuseppe Persico and [C++
Requests](https://github.com/whoshuu/cpr) by Huu Nguyen

[Ch](https://chcurl.sourceforge.io/) Written by Stephen Nestinger and Jonathan Rogado

Cocoa: [BBHTTP](https://github.com/brunodecarvalho/BBHTTP) written by Bruno de Carvalho
[curlhandle](https://github.com/karelia/curlhandle) Written by Dan Wood

[D](https://dlang.org/library/std/net/curl.html) Written by Kenneth Bogert

[Delphi](https://github.com/Mercury13/curl4delphi) Written by Mikhail Merkuryev

[Dylan](https://dylanlibs.sourceforge.io/) Written by Chris Double

[Eiffel](https://room.eiffel.com/library/curl) Written by Eiffel Software

[Euphoria](http://rays-web.com/eulibcurl.htm) Written by Ray Smith

[Falcon](http://www.falconpl.org/index.ftd?page_id=prjs&prj_id=curl)

[Ferite](http://www.ferite.org/) Written by Paul Querna

[Gambas](https://gambas.sourceforge.io/)

[glib/GTK+](http://atterer.net/glibcurl/) Written by Richard Atterer

Go: [go-curl](https://github.com/andelf/go-curl) by ShuYu Wang

[Guile](http://www.lonelycactus.com/guile-curl.html) Written by Michael L. Gran

[Harbour](https://github.com/vszakats/harbour-core/tree/master/contrib/hbcurl) Written by Viktor Szakáts

[Haskell](https://hackage.haskell.org/cgi-bin/hackage-scripts/package/curl) Written by Galois, Inc

[Java](https://github.com/pjlegato/curl-java)

[Julia](https://github.com/forio/Curl.jl) Written by Paul Howe

[Lisp](https://common-lisp.net/project/cl-curl/) Written by Liam Healy

Lua: [luacurl](http://luacurl.luaforge.net/) by Alexander Marinov, [Lua-cURL](https://github.com/Lua-cURL) by Jürgen Hötzel

[Mono](https://forge.novell.com/modules/xfmod/project/?libcurl-mono) Written by Jeffrey Phillips

[.NET](https://sourceforge.net/projects/libcurl-net/) libcurl-net by Jeffrey Phillips

[node.js](https://github.com/JCMais/node-libcurl) node-libcurl by Jonathan Cardoso Machado

[Object-Pascal](http://www.tekool.com/opcurl) Free Pascal, Delphi and Kylix binding written by Christophe Espern.

[O'Caml](https://sourceforge.net/projects/ocurl/) Written by Lars Nilsson

[Pascal](http://houston.quik.com/jkp/curlpas/) Free Pascal, Delphi and Kylix binding written by Jeffrey Pohlmeyer.

Perl: [WWW--Curl](https://github.com/szbalint/WWW--Curl) Maintained by Cris
Bailiff and Bálint Szilakszi,
[perl6-net-curl](https://github.com/azawawi/perl6-net-curl) by Ahmad M. Zawawi

[PHP](https://php.net/curl) Originally written by Sterling Hughes

[PostgreSQL](http://gborg.postgresql.org/project/pgcurl/projdisplay.php) Written by Gian Paolo Ciceri

[Python](http://pycurl.io/) PycURL by Kjetil Jacobsen

[R](https://cran.r-project.org/package=curl)

[Rexx](https://rexxcurl.sourceforge.io/) Written Mark Hessling

RPG, support for ILE/RPG on OS/400 is included in source distribution

Ruby: [curb](http://curb.rubyforge.org/) written by Ross Bamford, [ruby-curl-multi](http://curl-multi.rubyforge.org/) written by Kristjan Petursson and Keith Rarick

[Rust](https://github.com/carllerche/curl-rust) curl-rust - by Carl Lerche

[Scheme](https://www.metapaper.net/lisovsky/web/curl/) Bigloo binding by Kirill Lisovsky

[Scilab](https://help.scilab.org/docs/current/fr_FR/getURL.html) binding by Sylvestre Ledru

[S-Lang](http://www.jedsoft.org/slang/modules/curl.html) by John E Davis

[Smalltalk](http://www.squeaksource.com/CurlPlugin/) Written by Danil Osipchuk

[SP-Forth](http://www.forth.org.ru/~ac/lib/lin/curl/) Written by ygrek

[SPL](http://www.clifford.at/spl/) Written by Clifford Wolf

[Tcl](http://mirror.yellow5.com/tclcurl/) Tclcurl by Andrés García

[Visual Basic](https://sourceforge.net/projects/libcurl-vb/) libcurl-vb by Jeffrey Phillips

[Visual Foxpro](http://www.ctl32.com.ar/libcurl.asp) by Carlos Alloatti

[Q](https://q-lang.sourceforge.io/) The libcurl module is part of the default install

[wxWidgets](https://wxcode.sourceforge.io/components/wxcurl/) Written by Casey O'Donnell

[XBLite](http://perso.wanadoo.fr/xblite/libraries.html) Written by David Szafranski

[Xojo](https://github.com/charonn0/RB-libcURL) Written by Andrew Lambert
